### 2.8

a. What is the largest positive number one can represent in an eight-bit
2’s complement code? Write your result in binary and decimal.

b. What is the greatest magnitude negative number one can represent in
an eight-bit 2’s complement code? Write your result in binary and
decimal.

c. What is the largest positive number one can represent in n-bit 2’s
complement code?

d. What is the greatest magnitude negative number one can represent in
n-bit 2’s complement code?

#### Solution

a. because of the fact that there is 7 bits available for use
representing 8 bit non-negative numbers in 2' complement form, we get: 2^7 - 1 = +127, for code, it is simply 0 and all 1:
01111111. this is because there is 00000000 for 0 representation.

b. for negative, as 2's complement intended, for each positive
there is a negative counterpart to give in sum a 0.
But there are available 2^7 codes, which is more than all positive numbers represented in 8 bits, which count is 2^7 - 1.
And that number in the end has greater magnitude that the largest positive number.

So if maximum magnitude for postive ones is 2^7 - 1 = 127,
then maximum negative because of this one additional code for
negative numbers is -128, and its code is 10000000.

c. For largest positive number in n bits of 2's complement, we should remember that half of codes is intended for non-negative numbers including 0 in binary positional representation.

So there are all codes where first bit is 0. And we get
the maximum positional binary representation for maxmimum integer that is represented.

So we get n - 1 bits filled, and the last nth bit cleared 0111...1, so we get sum 2^0 * 1 + 2^1 * 1 + ... 2^(n-1) * 1 =
geometric progression sum 2^n - 1

c. for maximum magnitude positive number we have negtive counterpart representation:
0111...1 (positive) the counterpart 1000..001 where both have n bits. This is because sum of both give n bits of 0.

The last code remaining is 1000...0, which is assigned a maxmimum magnitude negative value which is 1 greater than magnitude of maximum positive number. So it is -2^n.
