### 1.1 [1] Explain the first of the two important ideas stated in Section 1.5

The first idea stated that any computer independently of it's
speed or price could do exactly same computitions, i.e. no more,
no less than any other computer, given it has access to enough
memory it needs, and enough time to complete the computition.

Explanation:

Computers are intended to solve computitonal problems. Much
more, it is intended to compute anything that is computable,
becuase otherwise it will not be such a big deal - there are so
many devices that can compute particular things, both digital
machines and mechanical.

Now Alan Turing was investigating the abstraction of computition,
and give an idea of abstract mechanism which carry out some
abstract actions to describe computitions, and he called
this a turing machine.

After he stated a Turing Thesis, which is - any
computition could be performed by a particular turing
machine. Now, for finit number of computitional problems
it is obvious in some scense that there is a turing machine that could compute them all given appropriate inputs. And the only machine that we can say is able to
compute more, is the machine that can simulate any computition (Infinit number of them), which is simulate all turing machines.
And Alan Turing shows that there is such a Turing Machine, that is given descriptions of computitions, which are descriptions of turing machines, and inputs, could compute it. So it is a "Universal Turing Machine".

Now when we return to idea of a computer, it occures to
be a 'universal turing machine", which only could have
limitations of memory and time. So, if there is enough memory and time, for any computer, it can compute anything that is computable.
