### 1.12 [5] Are items a through e in the following list algorithms? If not, what qualities required of algorithms do they lack?

#### a. Add the first row of the following matrix to another row whose first column contains a non-zero entry. (Reminder: Columns run vertically; rows run horizontally.)

[1,  2,  0,  4]

[0,  3,  2,  4]

[2,  3, 10, 22]

[12, 4,  3,  4]

it is not an algorithm, because there are 2 rows with non-zero first column. it leaks definitness.

#### b. In order to show that there are as many prime numbers as there are natural numbers, match each prime number with a natural number in the following manner. Create pairs of prime and natural numbers by matching the first prime number with 1 (which is the first natural number) and the second prime number with 2, the third with 3, and so forth. If, in the end, it turns out that each prime number can be paired with each natural number, then it is shown that there are as many prime numbers as natural numbers

This procedure is definitive and effectively computable even though it leaks finitness, because there are infinite number for both prime numbers and natural numbers. it is not an algorithm so.

#### c. Suppose you’re given two vectors each with 20 elements and asked to perform the following operation: Take the first element of the first vector and multiply it by the first element of the second vector. Do the same to the second elements, and so forth. Add all the individual products together to derive the dot product.

This is algorithm. it has all 3 cursial properties.

#### d. Lynne and Calvin are trying to decide who will take the dog for a walk. Lynne suggests that they flip a coin and pulls a quarter out of her pocket. Calvin does not trust Lynne and suspects that the quarter may be weighted (meaning that it might favor a particular outcome when tossed) and suggests the following procedure to fairly determine who will walk the dog.
1. Flip the quarter twice.
2. If the outcome is heads on the first flip and tails on the second,
then I will walk the dog.
3. If the outcome is tails on the first flip and heads on the second,
then you will walk the dog.
4. If both outcomes are tails or both outcomes are heads, then we flip twice again. Is Calvin’s technique an algorithm?

Solution:

Well if we consider a term of "computer" which should do this calculation, then even though it is acomplishable by this 2 person, because they have a coin, and they can flip it, but it is not effectively computable by any computer, because there are no computers that are able to flip the coin.

But if we consider this persons pair as a "computer", that has "flip that coin action", then anyway, if coin is
weighted, it will maybe always give the same result, so
in this case it leaks finitness.

#### e. Given a number, perform the following steps in order:
1. Multiply it by 4
2. Add 4
3. Divide by 2
4. Subtract 2
5. Divide by 2
6. Subtract 1
7. At this point, add 1 to a counter to keep track of the fact that you performed steps 1 through 6. Then test the result you got when you subtracted 1. If 0, write down the number of times you performed steps 1 through 6 and stop. If not 0, starting with the result of subtracting one, perform the seven steps again.

Solution:

Given initial number is 0, this is algorithm, otherwise
it is not finit procedure, so it is not an algorithm.
