### [5] Say we had a “black box,” which takes two numbers as input and outputs their sum. See Figure 1.10a. Say we had another box capable of multiplying two numbers together. See Figure 1.10b. We can connect these boxes together to calculate p × (m + n). See Figure 1.10c. Assume we have an unlimited number of these boxes. Show how to connect them   together to calculate:

### a. ax + b
### b. The average of the four input numbers w, x, y, and z
### c. a2 + 2ab + b2 (Can you do it with one add box and one multiply box?)

As i understand it is possible to get an output of any
box into input of another.

a) Here we use 2 boxes

(a,x -> [mul box]),b -> [sum box]

b) Here we have a nuance. it is impossible to use these
boxes to calculate values in reverse order, to get for example division, which is required to calculate average.
But we can use here exact value 1/4 = 0.25 which is possible
to represent in bits precisely.
So we will use

(((w,x -> [sum box]),y -> [sum box]),z -> [sum box]),0.25 -> [mul box]

c) We know we can have 2 sum and 1 mul boxes, heres how:
(a+b)*(a+b), but question is 1 sum and 1 mul, when there are 2 inputs a,b. In this case there will be 3 initial inputs, which have a or b value.
Now lets see all possible results:

(a+b)*a, (a+a)*a, (a+a)*b
a*b+a, a*a+a, a*a+b

As all these and expression that should be calculated are symethric, we can solve equation and see for which a and b it is possible:

1. (a+b)*a = (a+b)(a+b) => b = 0, or a = -b
2. 2a*a = a*a + 2*a*b + b*b => it is also possible to solve through vieta's formulas
and so on... in the end all are at their worst are quadratic expressions, so are solvable.
